- Hey, everyone out there in the live stream,
either watching live or watching the replay.
Thank you, thank you for being here.
Hey, Stan.
- Hello, how's it going?
- Hey, it's going well.
Welcome, welcome to the live stream
and almost to the podcast.
So we're gonna talk about some fun Anaconda stuff.
You already kicked this off?
- Yeah, let's do it.
- All right.
Stan, welcome to Talk Python to Me.
- Hey, nice to be here.
- Yeah, it's great to have you here.
I'm super excited to talk about data science things,
Anaconda things, and we'll even squeeze a little
of one of my favorites, the Apple M1 stuff
mixed in with data science.
So it should be a fun conversation.
- Cool, looking forward to it.
Yeah, it should be good.
I'm also very excited about the M1.
- Nice, yeah, we can geek out about that a little bit.
That'll be fun.
But before we get there, let's just start with your story.
How'd you get into programming in Python?
- Yeah, programming started as a kid,
dating myself here.
I learned to program basic on the Osborne 1,
a suitcase of a computer that we happened to have as a kid.
And then eventually picked up C and stuff like that.
Didn't learn Python until college,
mostly because I was frustrated with Perl.
I just found that Perl just never fit in my brain right.
And so I was like, well, what other scripting languages
are there?
And I found Python.
And that was a huge game changer.
I didn't really use it professionally
or like super seriously until grad school
when I had a summer research job.
And I realized that this new thing called NumPy
could help me do my analysis.
And so that was when I really started
to pick up Python seriously.
And now here I am.
- Yeah, what were you studying in grad school?
- I was doing physics.
So I did particle physics and used Python quite extensively
actually throughout my research.
And C++ unfortunately for better or worse.
- Yeah.
- So yeah, but that's how I ended up.
I always ended up kind of being the software person
on experiments.
So when I was leaving academia,
going into software engineering
kind of was a logical step for me.
- Yeah, that's really cool.
I was studying math in grad school
and did a lot of programming as well.
And I just sort of trended more and more
towards the computer side
and decided that that was the path as well.
But it's cool.
A lot of the sort of logical thinking
and problem solving you learn in physics
or math or whatever,
they translate pretty well to programming.
- Yeah, yeah.
And definitely working on large experiments.
A lot of the sort of soft skills of software engineering,
things like how do you coordinate with people?
How do you design software for multiple people to use?
That sort of thing.
I inadvertently was learning how to be a software manager
as a physicist and then only realized it later
when I went into industry.
- Yeah, excellent.
And how about now?
You're over at Anaconda, right?
- Yeah, so maybe I'm doing the same thing.
So now I'm both a developer and a manager at Anaconda.
- It's a direct path from like PhD physics,
particle physics to programming to data science at Anaconda.
Is that how it goes?
- Yeah, I mean, we employ a surprising number of scientists
who are now software engineers.
And so I manage the team that does
a lot of the open source at Anaconda.
So we work on stuff like Numba and Dask
and various projects like that.
Just recently hired the piston developers
to broaden our scope into more Python
JIT optimization kind of stuff.
So yeah, so I'm doing a mix of actual development
on some projects as well as just managing strategy,
the usual kind of stuff.
- Yeah.
Well, I suspect most people out there know what Anaconda is,
but I have listeners who come from all over.
What is Anaconda?
It's kind of like a Python you download,
but it's also, it has its own special advantages, right?
- Yeah, I mean, where we came out of
and still is our main focus is how to get Python
and just broader data science tools.
One of the interesting things about data science
is it's not just Python.
Most of people are gonna have to combine Python
and maybe they don't realize it,
but with Fortran and C++ and all the things
that underpin all of these amazing libraries.
And so a lot of what we do is try to get Python
into the hands of data scientists,
is get them the latest things
and make it easy for them to install
on whatever platform they're on,
Windows, Mac, Linux, that sort of thing.
So Anaconda has a free, we call it individual edition.
It's basically a package distribution
and installer that lets you get started.
And then you can, there are thousands of conda packages,
conda is the packaging system.
There are thousands of conda packages that you can install
where we or the broader community
have done a lot of the hard work
to make sure all of those compiled packages
are built to run on your system.
- That's one of the real big challenges
of the data science stuff
is getting it compiled for your system.
Because if I use requests, it's, you know,
pip install requests, I probably,
maybe it runs a setup high,
maybe it just comes down as a wheel, I don't know,
but it's just pure Python
and there's not a whole lot of magic.
If I'm really getting that far out there,
maybe I'm using SQL alchemy
and it has some C optimizations,
it will try to compile.
And if it doesn't,
well, it'll run some slower Python version probably.
But in the data science world,
you've got really heavy dependencies, right?
Like, as you said,
stuff that requires a Fortran compiler on your computer.
I don't know if I have a Fortran compiler on my Mac.
I'm pretty sure I don't,
but maybe it's hidden there.
Probably not, right?
And as maybe C++,
probably I have a C++ compiler,
but maybe not the right one,
maybe not the right version.
Maybe my path is not set up right.
And plus it's slow, right?
All of these things are a challenge.
So Anaconda tries to basically be,
let's pre-build that stuff
with a tool chain that we know will work
and then deliver you the final binaries, right?
But the challenge with that for a lot of tooling is,
it's downloaded and installed to different machines
with different architectures, right?
So you've gone and built stuff for macOS,
you built stuff for Linux,
you built stuff for Windows and whatnot.
Is that right?
- Yeah, yeah.
Building software is non-trivial
and no matter how much a developer tries to automate it
so that things just work,
it helps to have someone do a little bit of quality control
and a little bit of just deciding how to set
all the switches to make sure that you get a thing that works
so that you can just get going quickly.
Early on, I remember in the sort of 2014, 2015 era,
Anaconda was extremely popular with Windows users
who did not have a lot of good options
for how to get this stuff.
- Right, right.
- With Linux, you could kind of get it together
and get it going.
If you were motivated on Windows,
it was often just like a very much,
I don't know what to do.
And so making it sort of one-stop shopping
for all of these packages.
And another thing we wanted to do
is make sure that there was a whole community
of package building around it.
It wasn't just us.
So things like CondaForge
is a community of package builders
that we are part of and hugely support.
'Cause there's a long tail.
There's always gonna be stuff that is gonna be,
we're never gonna get around to packaging.
- Right, there's important stuff that you're like,
this is essential.
So NumPy, Matplotlib, and so on.
You all take control of making sure that that one gets out.
But there's some biology library
that people don't know about that you're not in charge of.
And that's what the CondaForge plus Conda is.
It's sort of like pip and PyPI,
but also in a slightly more structured way.
- Yeah, yeah.
And that was why Conda was built to help make it
so that it is possible for this community to grow up,
for people to package things that aren't Python at all
that you might need, all kinds of stuff like that.
And yeah, there's always going to be
in your specific scientific discipline.
I mean, so for example,
BioConda is a really interesting distribution of packages
built by the bioinformatics community.
Built on Conda, but they have all of the packages
that they care about,
and many of which I've never heard of.
- Right.
- And aren't in common use,
but are really important to that scientific discipline.
- Yeah, it's really amazing that that's out there.
That's great.
Out in the live stream,
we have a question from Neil Heather.
Hey, Neil.
I mentioned Linux, Windows, macOS.
Neil asked, does Anaconda work on Raspberry Pi OS,
as in ARM64?
- Yeah, so the answer to that is Anaconda, not yet.
Conda Forge does have a set of community built packages
for Raspberry Pi OS.
The main challenge there is actually,
we just a couple of months ago announced ARM64 support,
but it was aimed at the server ARM machines
that are running ARM 8.2 instruction set,
which the Raspberry Pi is 8.0.
And so the packages we built,
which will work great on server ARM,
are missing or using some instructions
that Raspberry Pis can't support.
But Conda Forge, so if you go look up Conda Forge
and Raspberry Pi, you'll find some instructions
on how to install for that.
- Yeah, excellent.
Yeah, it's really cool that it works over there.
And ARM, ARM is interesting, right?
So let's talk a little bit about that
because I find that this whole Apple Silicon move,
you know, they took, they created their M1 processor
and they said, you know what?
We're dropping Intel, dropping x86, more importantly,
and we're going to switch to basically iPad processors,
slightly amped up iPad processors
that turn out to be really, really fast,
which is actually blew my mind and it was unexpected.
But I think the success of Apple
is actually going to encourage others to do this as well.
And it's going to add more platforms
that things like Anaconda, Conda Forge and stuff
are going to have to support, right?
So there's a cool article over here by you on Anaconda
called a Python Data Scientist's Guide
to the Apple Silicon Transition.
- Yeah, this was, you know, I've been, I'm a huge chip nerd
just due to background and thinking about optimization
and performance.
And so this came out of, you know, some experiments
I was doing to just understand, I mean,
we got some M1 Mac minis into our data center
and started immediately playing with them.
And then I realized after some, you know,
I should take the stuff I was learning and finding
and put it together in a document for other people
'cause I couldn't find this information anywhere
organized in a way that was, you know,
for me as a Python developer,
I was having a hard time putting it all together.
- Right, there was some anecdotal stuff
about just like, yeah, this kind of works for me
or this is kind of fast or this is kind of slow,
but this is a little more,
like here's the whole picture and what the history is
and where it's going and what it means
and specifically focused on the Conda side of things, right?
- Yeah, and even just the Python side,
it's, I mean, it's sort of an interesting problem of,
you know, Python's an interpreter language.
So you're like, well, I don't have any machine code
to worry about, right?
But the interpreter of course is compiled.
So you at least need that.
And then many, many Python packages
also contain compiled bits and you'll need those too.
And this is an interesting broad problem
for the whole Python ecosystem to try and tackle
because it's not too often a whole new platform
kind of just appears, you know,
making a whole new architecture takes a while.
- It absolutely does.
I think there's a lot of interesting benefits to come.
I do want to point out for people listening,
if you jump over to the PSF JetBrains Python Developer Survey,
the most recent one from 2020,
look around a bit, you'll see that
while we don't run production stuff on macOS that much,
29% of the developers are using macOS
to develop Python code, right?
So Apple's pledged that we're going to take 100% of this
and move it over to Silicon.
Which means almost a third of the people running Python
in a couple of years will be under this environment, right?
And even if you have a Windows or Linux machine
and you don't care about macOS,
you may be maintaining a package for people who do.
And that means Apple Silicon, right?
- Yeah, and I mean, it's interesting.
There's a whole, I mean,
just other stuff you take for granted, you know,
the availability of free continuous integration services.
- Yeah.
- That has been transformative for the open source community.
I mean, it's really improved the software quality
that all these open source projects
can automatically run their tests and build packages
every time there's a new change.
However, something like this comes out
and until you get, you know, ARM Macs into these services
and if they're, you know, until they're freely available,
a lot of the infrastructure of these open source projects,
they don't have a way to test on an M1 Mac,
except manually if they happen to have one.
And they don't have a way to automate their build
on an M1 Mac until that sorts out.
- Yeah, and thinking about the workflow here,
there's two challenges that this presents.
One is you wanna do a Git push production
or Git push to some branch or tag it,
and that's gonna trigger a CI build
that might fork off to run a Windows compile,
a Linux compile, a Mac compile,
generate some platform specific wheels
with like Fortran compiled in there or whatever,
and then you're gonna ship that off.
If that CI system doesn't have an Apple Silicon machine,
it can't build for Apple Silicon, right?
- Yep.
- Right, so like, where do you go to the time?
Yeah, sorry.
Yeah, well, where do you, you know,
where do you get M1 in the cloud, right?
As a normal, I know there's a few hosted places,
but as a like a normal GitHub or an Azure,
it's not common to just go grab a bunch of those
and pile them up, right?
- Yeah, it'll take time.
I mean, eventually, in the same way that, you know,
I was thinking back to, you know,
go back four or five years ago,
it was, there wasn't a whole lot of options
for Windows CI available.
There were a couple of providers
and then there was sort of a huge change
and then pretty much everyone offered a Windows option
and they were faster and all of this stuff.
And so I think, but that took time.
And I think that's the thing is these,
the hardware is in people's hands now
and it's just gonna get more and more.
And it's unclear how quickly we can catch up.
- Yeah.
- That's gonna be a challenge for all of us.
- It's absolutely gonna be a challenge.
It's interesting.
I hope that we get there soon.
The other problem in this same workflow
is I was actually just looking at some NumPy issues,
specifically issue 18,143.
I'm sure people have that right off the top of their head.
The title is, please provide universal two wheels
for macOS.
And there's a huge long conversation about,
I mean, this is like many, many lines of,
many messages in the thread.
And one of the problems they brought up is like,
look, we can find a way to compile the binary bits,
the C++ bits for M1, but we can't test it.
If we can't, we as developers cannot run this output.
It's a little sketchy to just compile
and ship it to the world.
And to be fair, this is on January 9th of 2021,
when it was still hard.
These things were still shipping and still arriving there.
It was not like just go to the Apple store and pick one up.
- Yeah, yeah.
As an interesting example,
I mean, CondaForge was able to get conda packages
for Apple Silicon out pretty quickly,
but they did it with a clever
sort of cross compilation strategy
where they were building on x86 max,
the arm packages and pushing them out.
And so, but they had enough people manually testing
that they had confidence in the process that it was okay.
But it was, that's very different
than how they build other packages,
which are built and tested immediately, automatically.
And if they fail tests, they don't get uploaded.
So that's, it's a risk,
but it helped get the software out
in people's hands quicker.
But yeah, long-term, we need to get these machines
onto all of these CI systems
so that we can use the same techniques
we've built up over the years
to ensure we have quality software.
- Yeah.
I think we'll get there,
but it's just gonna take some time, right?
- Yep, yep. Yeah.
- Let's see.
Neil on live stream says,
speaking of open source,
Apple is rumored to be hiring experts in a risk.
V5s have perhaps moved away
from having to pay licensing fees to arm.
Yeah. I'm not sure about that, but interesting.
- Yeah. I mean, it's a,
what's interesting here is the,
I mean, other chip architectures
have been around for a long, long time,
but until very recently,
average users didn't have to think about x86 versus arm.
Arm was for mobile phones and other,
never had to worry about PowerPC or anything like that.
- Not for real computers.
Yeah.
- And so, but now, once you,
once going from one to two is a big step,
now the floodgates are open
and now we're thinking about,
well, what else is out there?
I mean, you know, RISC-V,
I'm not sure how you say it,
I think RISC-V is what you call it,
is an interesting thing and has even,
you know, being a completely open standard,
you don't have to even pay licensing fees, as mentioned.
I don't know if Apple's gonna make this transition again,
so quickly, but I can guarantee you that,
you know, everyone probably somewhere in a basement
is thinking about it,
maybe doing some experiments,
but yeah, chips move slowly,
but it's interesting to think about.
- Yeah, this is not a thing you can change very frequently
and drag the developers along.
I mean, we're talking about all the challenges,
you know, that are just down the pipeline from that.
- Yeah. - Very interesting.
All right, well, let's just talk a few,
a little bit about this.
First, you're excited about these as a data scientist?
- Yeah, it's, I'm there really for sort of two reasons.
I mean, one thing that's interesting
is just the power efficiency.
I always, there was a talk long ago
from the chief scientist at NVIDIA,
which really had an impression on me,
in which he, you know, paraphrasing roughly,
basically said that,
because everything is now power constrained,
power efficiency equals performance.
- Yeah. - In a way that is,
you know, normally you just think,
well, just put more power in there,
but that heat has to go somewhere.
So, you know, we long since hit that wall,
and so now you just have to get more efficient
to get more performance.
- Right. - That's an interesting
opportunity. - I mean, you can get more,
you can get like larger power supplies
and larger computers.
I have a gaming sim computer,
and it is so loud if you get it going full power.
Like if the windows are open,
you can hear it outside the house.
It's literally that loud.
But at the same time,
it's not just on your personal computer,
you know, in the cloud and places like that, right?
You pay not just, you know, how much performance you get.
There's some sort of combination of how much energy
does that particular processor take to run?
And if it's one fifth,
you might be able to buy more cloud compute.
- Yeah. - Per dollar.
- Yeah, power and cooling is a huge part
of computer data center expenses.
And even just, you know,
you can put maybe, you know, one to 300 watts into a CPU.
You're not gonna put, you know,
multiple kilowatts in there or something.
And so where is that?
What else can you do?
And a lot of that is that, you know,
Moore's law is driven a lot by just every time
you shrink the process, you do get more power efficient.
But now it's interesting to think about architectures
that have been sort of thought of,
that ARM has come in into its own
in a extremely power constrained environment.
And so now we're letting it loose on a laptop,
which has way more power compared to a cell phone.
- Yeah, you're like, what could we do if we fed,
you know, right into the socket in the wall?
- Yeah, you know, what happens
if I put it in the data center?
- Yeah. - So that's--
- I think ARM in the data center
is gonna be really important.
- Yeah. - For this, yeah.
- I think it's definitely,
I'd always expected that to come before the desktop,
to be honest.
I was surprised as many people were
by the, you know, suddenness of the Apple transition.
'Cause I had assumed this maybe would happen
much after we all got used to ARM in the data center,
where you're probably running Linux
and it's easy to recompile compared to, you know,
Mac and stuff like that.
- Yeah, yeah, that's what I thought as well.
The payoff is so high, right?
They spend so much energy on both direct electricity
as well as then cooling from the waste heat,
from that energy, that it's,
the payoff is just completely, completely clear, right?
All right, so let's see.
A couple of things that you pointed out
that make a big difference here is obviously
ARM versus x86, built-in on-chip GPU,
the whole system as a, system on a chip thing,
rather than a bunch of pieces going through motherboard
is pretty interesting.
But I think the, maybe the most interesting one
has to do with the acceleration,
things like the Apple neural engine that's built in
and whatnot.
It sounds like the data science libraries in general
are not targeting the built-in neural engines yet,
but maybe they should, maybe they will in the future,
I don't know.
- Yeah, it's something that we're gonna have to figure out
because, I mean, I think it was a bit of chicken and the egg
that, you know, until this happened,
you didn't have this kind of hardware
just sitting on people's desks
and you weren't gonna, you know,
run data science stuff on your phone.
So now that it's here, now the question is,
okay, what can we do with it?
I mean, right now, for example, you know,
for the Apple neural engine,
you can take advantage of it using something called
Core ML tools, which actually did a webinar sometime back
on, and, but that's like for basically,
you've trained a model and you want to run inference on it
more efficiently and quickly.
But that's, you know, that's it.
There's an alpha release of TensorFlow
that's GPU accelerated, and it will take advantage of the,
you know, on the M1 if you're running it there,
but that's super early.
And there's a lot more opportunities like that,
but again, that will take time to adapt.
- It will.
I suspect as there's bigger gains to be had,
they'll probably more likely to be adopted, right?
So for example, I have my Mac mini here
that I just completely love, but it's not that powerful,
say compared to like a GeForce video card
or something like that.
But if Apple announces something like a huge Apple Pro,
Mac Pro with many, many, you know,
128 cores instead of 16 or whatever, right?
Then all of a sudden, and the neural engine,
all of a sudden that neural engine
becomes really interesting, right?
Maybe it's worth going to the extra effort
of writing specific code for it.
- Yeah, yeah.
That's the other thing that's interesting about this
is we've only seen one of these chips
and it is by definition the slowest one
that will ever be made.
(laughing)
And so we don't even know how, you know,
what is it gonna be like to scale up?
I mean, one of those things that is, you know,
if you're targeting that big desktop user,
how are they going to scale this up?
This all fit on one package.
Can they still do that?
Will they have to split out into multiple packages?
There's a lot of engineering challenges
that they have to solve,
and we're not sure how they're gonna solve them yet
out on the outside.
So we're gonna have to see.
- It's gonna be exciting to see that come along here.
All right, so let's touch on just a couple of things.
Getting Python packages for M1,
what are some of the options there?
- Yeah, so the status still
is roughly how I have in this article,
which is basically you can use pip to install stuff
if wheels have been built.
And a number of packages like NumPy
have started to catch up and have wheels
that will run on the M1.
Another option, which works surprisingly well,
is to just use an x86 Python package distribution.
- Yeah, I think that's actually what I'm doing
because it just runs over Rosetta 2.
- Yeah, it just works. - And yeah, it's pretty fast.
- It is shocking.
I mean, Rosetta 2 on average,
I'm finding is sort of like a 20% speed hit,
which for an entire architecture switch is amazing.
I've never seen that before.
Or you can use Condaforge has, as I mentioned earlier,
their sort of experimental macOS ARM package distribution,
which doesn't have everything, but has a lot of things
and is using them, it is all built for ARM.
There's no translation or anything going on there.
- Right, and on python.org, I believe the Python
is that if you go and download,
I believe it's a universal binary now, pretty sure.
So that means it'll adapt and just run on ARM
or run on x86, you just get one binary.
The NumPy conversation was kind of around that as well,
I believe.
All right, you did some performance analysis
on the performance cores versus efficiency cores.
That was pretty interesting.
And so that was pretty similar to hyper-threading.
If you wanna run Linux or Windows,
you basically gotta go with Docker or Parallels.
And then I guess maybe the last thing is like,
let's wrap up this subtopic with like pros and cons
for data scientists.
People out there listening, they're like,
I can't take hearing about how cool the M1 is anymore.
Maybe I'm gonna have to get one of these, like, should they?
Like, what do you think as a data scientist?
- Yeah, as a data scientist, my takeaway
from all the testing was you should be really excited
about this, but I would wait unless you are doing
what I would describe as a little bit of data science
on the side and not a huge amount.
Mainly because what they've proven is the architecture
has great performance and great battery life.
The thing we still have to see is how are they gonna get
more RAM in there?
How are they gonna get more cores in there?
And then also when is the rest of the ecosystem
gonna catch up on package support?
So honestly, if you're interested in sort of bleeding edge,
knowing what's coming, I would totally jump in.
If you want this for your day-to-day,
I would probably still wait and see what comes out next,
because I think a data scientist especially
is gonna want some of the more cores and more RAM,
especially than what these machines offer.
- Right, there's always remote desktop
or SSH or something like that, right?
If you've got an Intel machine sitting around,
you can just connect over the network locally.
Yeah, very cool.
All right, excellent.
I just wanna give a quick mention that Paul Everett
from JetBrains and I did a Python developer
explores Apple's in one way, way back in December 11th,
the 2020, right when this thing came out.
So people can check that out,
I'll put that in the show notes as well.
All right, let's talk about the state of data science 2021.
How'd you all find out about this?
How do you know the state?
(Paul laughs)
- Yeah, so this is something we've been doing
for a few years now.
I mean, since we have a big data scientist audience,
a couple of years back, we decided,
hey, let's ask them about what challenges
they're seeing in their jobs,
and then publish the results
so that the whole industry can learn a little bit more
about what are data scientists seeing
in their day-to-day jobs.
That's going well, going poorly,
where do they wanna see improvements?
What are they sort of feeling and thinking?
- Yeah, so you got a bunch of people
to come fill out the survey and give you some feedback.
- Yeah, yeah, we, you know, 140 plus countries,
so we have pretty good reach across the world.
And more than 4,200 people took the survey.
So it's, yeah, we got a lot of responses.
It's always amazing to see.
- Yeah, quick side thought here, I guess.
So you've got in that survey,
which I'll link to the PDF results in the share notes,
you've got all the countries highlighted,
and obviously North America is basically
completely lit up as like a popular place of results.
So is Western Europe, Australia, and even Brazil.
Africa's pretty light on the side.
What else can be done to get more Python,
more data science going in Africa, do you think?
Do you have any thoughts on that?
- No, I don't, that's a good, that's an excellent question.
I don't, that's actually might be a good question
for a future survey, to be honest, is I can speculate.
You know, I don't know if it's, you know,
access to the computing, or if it's bandwidth,
or if it's, you know, resources available
in the local languages.
I mean, there's all sorts of possibilities.
- One thing that is really nice about Python
and data science is so much of the stuff is free, right?
So it's not like, oh, you gotta pay, you know,
some huge Oracle database license to use it or whatever.
So I mean, there's a real possibility of that.
So yeah, I don't really know either, but let's see.
There's the standard stuff about like education level.
I guess one of the areas maybe we could start on
is just, you know, people who are doing data science,
like where do they live in the organization, right?
Are they the CEO?
Are they vice president?
A good portion of them were,
50% is either senior folks or managers.
That's kind of interesting, right?
- Yeah, I can see it sort of coming out of data science
as helping in decision-making and that sort of thing.
So I can see it gravitating towards the decision-makers
in an organization and that sort of thing.
I mean, one of the interesting things that maybe
is in a later one of the pages is how spread out
data science is across the different departments as well.
That there was, you know, obviously IT and R&D
show up higher than the others,
but you kind of see a long tail in all the departments.
And, you know, my theory on that is I think
we're seeing data science evolving into sort of
a profession and a professional skill, if that makes sense.
So in the same way that like, you know,
knowledge workers are always expected to do writing
and to know how to write.
But we also hire professional technical writers.
I think we're getting into a space where we'll have,
everyone will need to have some numerical literacy
and data science skills,
even while we also employ professional data scientists.
- Is it the new Excel?
Like if I'm a manager and I don't know how to use Excel,
people are gonna go, what is wrong with you?
Why are you, how did you get here? Right?
You're gonna have to know how to use a spreadsheet.
I mean, it could be Google sheets or whatever,
but something like that to, you know, pull in data,
sum it up, put it in a graph and so on.
And are you seeing that more formal data science,
you know, Jupyter type stuff is kind of
edging in on that world?
- Yeah, it's gonna, again, I think we'll have to see
sort of how the tools settle out.
One thing I know for sure is that you will have to
at least become familiar with the concepts
so that even if the people doing the data science
and reporting to you are using whatever
their favorite tool set is,
at least understanding their workflow
and how data goes through that life cycle
and data cleaning and modeling and inference
and all of those things.
You'll have to understand that at least enough
to interpret what is being told
and ask the right questions about.
- Right, so if somebody comes to you and says,
you asked me this question,
so I put together a Jupyter notebook
that's using PyTorch forecasting.
Maybe you can do none of those,
but you should kind of understand
the realm of what that means, something like that.
- Yes, yes, you'll have to know at least what steps
they had to go through to get to the answer
so you can ask good questions about.
'Cause if you were a decision maker,
you need to be able to kind of defend your decision,
which means you're gonna have to at least understand,
you know, what went into the inputs into that decision, so.
- Yeah, well, we bought that company 'cause,
Jeff over in business analytics said it was a good idea.
Turned out he didn't replace the not a number section
and that really broke it, so.
- I guess one of the requisite topics we should talk about
is probably COVID-19, 'cause that was gonna be over
in a few weeks or months, but then it wasn't.
So it's still ongoing.
And one of the things that you all asked about
and studied was basically, did COVID-19
and more specifically sort of the shutdown
as a result of it result in more data science,
less data science, increased investment, not so much?
What did you all find there?
- Yeah, so interestingly, I think we found
that there was sort of all,
different organizations had every possible answer.
So, you know. - Yes.
- You know, about a third decreased investment,
but a quarter increased investment
and another quarter stayed the same.
And so that's, you know, there wasn't one definitive answer
that everyone had for that, which is,
I think probably has a lot to do with where data science
is at in their organization.
I mean, on one hand, data science is an activity
that is easy to do remotely.
You can, you know, there are a lot of jobs
that you can't do remotely.
Data science is one you could do remotely.
So that part isn't an obstacle so much.
But is, a lot of it also has to do with risk.
I mean, everyone, when they faced this,
was thinking with their business hats on,
what is the risk to my organization
of an unknown economic impact of this pandemic?
And so a lot of places might have viewed their data science
as being a risky, still early kind of thing.
And so let's pull back a little bit.
Let's not spend the money.
- Is it optional?
Okay, we cancel it for a while.
We put it on hold.
- Yeah.
- Or is it-- - But clearly,
for some organizations, it was so important
they put more money in.
And so a lot of it had to do
with just where you're at in the journey, I think.
- Yeah, yeah, absolutely.
Let's see.
Industries, you found out where people
were doing data science.
Obviously technology, right?
Tech companies, I'm guessing this is like Airbnb, Netflix,
those kinds of places.
There's a lot of data science happening in those worlds.
Academic was number two.
- Yeah, I mean, data science is still
a actively researched thing.
I mean, as you see, sometimes it's hard to keep up
with all of the new advancements and changes and everything,
not just in the software, but in techniques.
And so academia is super busy on this.
- Yeah.
- Banking is also a top one,
because I kind of think of banking and finance
as being some of the original corporate data scientists
in some ways.
And so obviously they're,
it was interesting to see automotive
actually score so highly.
- That's the one that surprised me as well.
Automotive is 6% and the highest industry was 10%.
So yeah, that's really quite high.
I wonder how much of that is self-driving cars.
- You know, I don't know that.
I mean, the other one is,
as we've heard with the chip shortages,
supply chain logistics is an interesting use of data science
to try and predict how much supply of all the things
you're gonna have where and when,
and how should you transport stuff.
And I imagine car manufacturing is especially challenging,
especially now.
- Interesting, yeah.
They really shot themselves in the foot, didn't they?
When they said, you know what?
All these extra chips, people aren't gonna need cars.
They're not gonna buy cars during this downturn.
So let's cancel our order.
We'll just pick it back up in six months.
And six months later, there are no chips that we had.
So there we have it.
Yeah, I mean, GM, I think it's even shutting down
a significant portion of their production in the US
'cause they're just out of chips, which is crazy.
Antonio out in the live stream says
he's doing data science with his team
in the energy, oil, and gas industry,
and we're not the only ones.
It's funny that doesn't appear in the list.
- We do have energy, but they're down at 2%.
Again, all of the percentages are low
'cause there's so many industries
and everyone was all over the place.
- Yeah, absolutely, cool.
Let's see, team size is interesting.
I think one of the things that is interesting here
is when I think of software developers,
they kind of cluster together
in like development team groups, right?
They've got the software development department
maybe in a company or a team building a piece of software
or running a website.
To me, data scientists feel like
they might be more embedded within little groups.
There might be a data scientist
in the marketing department,
a data scientist in the DevOps department, and so on.
Is that maybe correct?
- Yeah, I think we've seen companies
actually do both at the same time even,
where sometimes they'll have,
I mean, one of the things we have listed
is a data science center of excellence.
And what that ends up being is some sense
of a group that is pathfinding for an organization.
They're saying, okay, these are the best practices,
these are the tools, this is what to do,
figuring that out and then rolling it out
to all the departments who have their embedded data scientists
who can take advantage of that.
'Cause I think it's valuable to have a data scientist
embedded in the department
because one of the most important things
as a data scientist is your understanding
of the data you're analyzing and your familiarity with it.
I would really prefer the person analyzing
car supply chains understand what goes into that
and also know data science,
as opposed to a data scientist for whom it's all numbers
and they don't know.
- Right, if you could trade absolute expertise in Git
versus really good understanding of the problem domain,
you're probably better off going,
you know what, just keep zipping it up
and just really answer these questions well.
You don't actually have to make that trade off,
but I agree that domain knowledge is more important here.
Yeah, so IT had the highest,
so think of the departments where data scientists live.
IT was pretty high, then R&D,
and then this data center of excellence you spoke about,
then ops, finance, administration, marketing,
human resources, it's really spread out,
which is sort of what I was getting at before.
- Yeah, yeah, so I think there are a lot of,
seeing a lot of organizations
build their data science expertise ground up,
department by department,
and then maybe we'll coalesce some of it
into a single department at some point.
- Right, maybe that department makes the APIs
for the rest of the sort of isolated folks and so on.
One that was interesting is how do you spend your time?
I mean, you think about these AI models
or these plotly graphs
and all these things that data scientists produce.
Then there's the quote that data cleaning
is not the grunge work, it is the work, right?
And you sort of have this chart of like,
how do you spend your time?
And 22% is data preparation,
17% on top of that is data cleaning.
And so, yeah, that's a pretty significant portion
of just getting ready to ask questions.
- Yeah, and that's really,
that's the piece that requires that domain expertise
to know what you're looking at, what's relevant,
what problems it'll have.
No data set is perfect,
and no data set is perfect for all questions.
And so even if, you know,
you can't ever clean the data just once
'cause what you're doing is preparing it
for the questions you're going to ask.
And so you need someone who can, you know,
understand what's gonna happen there and do that.
And that's really the expertise you want.
- Yeah, cool.
Another topic you asked about was
barriers to going to production.
So some pretty intense graphs,
lots of many, many options across many categories.
But basically you asked,
what are the roadblocks do you face
when moving your models to a production environment?
- Yeah, the-- - Yeah, go ahead.
- Yeah, go ahead.
I was gonna say, yeah, the, you know,
intense graphs are really that
everyone has a slightly different perception of this
depending on what seat they're in.
Are they the analyst?
Are they the data scientist?
Are they the DevOps person?
Everyone has a different answer
for what the roadblocks are.
- Right.
- And which just makes sense
'cause you're gonna see what is relevant to your job.
When you sum everyone up,
you kind of sort of see this even split across IT security.
Honestly, what I found interesting
was that there was both converting your model
from Python or R into another language
and also converting from another language
into Python and R.
- Yeah, exactly.
So one of the challenges that people had was,
just like you said,
recoding models from Python or R into another language.
And then the exact reverse.
And they were almost exactly tied.
24% of the people said,
"Oh, I gotta convert these Python models
"to Java or whatever."
The other people are like,
"I got this Java model.
"I gotta get into Python
"so I can put it in fast API on the web."
Right?
Something like that.
- Yeah, anecdotally, I mean,
I think the, you know,
maybe we'll have to change the phrasing
of this question in the future
because putting Python and R together
might have conflated a couple of things potentially.
'Cause so I just know anecdotal evidence,
you know, we have talked to customers
who their data scientists wrote everything in R,
but they didn't wanna put R in production
and were asking them to recode it into Python
because Python was okay for production.
But I've also had the conversation
where people are like,
"We do all of our data modeling in Python
"and Python's not okay for production.
"Java's okay for production."
- Yeah.
- And so it's this weird problem
of companies have built up how they do deployments
on specific languages.
And those aren't the languages
that people are doing data science in all the time.
- Right.
And I suspect in the Java one,
it's just like we have a bunch of Java APIs and apps running
and those people that do that stuff,
they run those apps and you're gonna give us a model
that's just gonna fit into that world.
But if you are already running Python for your web servers,
just put it in production,
it's already right there, right?
- Yep, yep, yep, yeah.
- Yeah, quite interesting.
Okay.
Let's see, I'll flip through here and find a couple more.
One was interesting, it was about open source,
enterprise adoption of open source.
Yeah, you may wanna speak to the results there.
- Yeah, I wish we could have asked this question
10 years ago, 'cause I think it would have been fascinating
to compare to now.
- Yeah, yeah, it's the trend that's super interesting, yeah?
- One of the surprising things for me was the outcome
that said, well, less surprising was 87% of organizations
said that they allow the use of open source
inside their organization.
I think that's not too surprising.
I mean, even just Linux is kind of like this sort
of baseline, how is your organization functioning
without Linux?
- Yeah, and then almost what programming language
could you choose these days that's not open source, right?
You know, you've got Java, you've got .NET,
like especially .NET was one that wasn't open source,
it was pretty popular, like too late,
that's all open source and installed
through package managers now,
and then the move to Python, and yeah, I mean,
I can hardly think of a language or a place to run
where you can't use some level of open source.
- Yeah, but the second question, which was,
does your employer encourage you
to contribute to open source?
I was surprised to see 65% said yes,
that is a huge fraction and is interesting
because that has not always been that high.
I know that we have spoken again to people
who have said, hey, I wish I could contribute,
but my employer, we just don't have a policy for this
or we don't have a--
- Yeah, I used to hear that a lot, right?
That it's just, it's too complicated,
I might leak something out, yeah,
or bring in some GPL stuff
and mess up our commercial product or whatever, right?
- Yeah, so I don't know how all these companies
have solved that internally, but I am excited to see
that there's now a huge potential base
of open source contributors out there that,
commercially, that there wasn't before.
- I do think there's something about creating a culture
for software developers and data scientists
where they want to be,
and people don't wanna be in a place
where they're forced to use just proprietary tools
that are old and crusty
and they're not allowed to share their work
or talk about their work.
And there's people who would do that,
but as a, I would love to be in that environment,
like that's not that feeling,
and talent's hard to come by,
so people are probably creating environments
that attract the best developers.
Best developers don't wanna be locked in a basement
and told they can't share or contribute to anything, yeah.
- Yeah, I definitely agree with that.
- Another thing that's hot these days,
hot as you don't want it,
but it's very hot potato style,
is supply chain stuff and open source pipeline issues.
The survey actually mentioned that one of the problems
that people mentioned,
one of the reasons that they don't want to use open source
is they believed it was insecure,
because our $20 billion bank is now depending
on this project from Sarah about padding numbers
or whatever, right?
Like, if somebody takes over a thing,
we're gonna pip install a virus
into the core trading engine,
that's gonna be bad, right?
Like that's an extreme example.
But you did ask about what people are doing
to secure their, basically the code they're acquiring
through open source.
- Yeah, and this is something, I mean,
we're interested in just generally,
because there's a lot more focus on security
and you see more reports about supply chain attacks
on software, and so we're curious
how different organizations are tackling the problem.
Unsurprisingly, the most popular answer at 45%
was they use a managed repository,
which I interpret to mean basically,
it's kind of like you have a private mirror
of the packages that are approved in your organization,
and everyone pulls from there,
not from the internet directly,
which is a smart approach,
because it gives you a natural sort of gating thing
that you can do where there is a review process
to bring new software in there.
- Yeah.
- And so there's a lot of things here.
I mean, obviously, even commercially,
we sell a repository for conda packages
for precisely this reason,
because customers want some governance
and are more than happy to pay us.
Yeah, team edition is our on-package repository.
And so this was an ask from customers,
which is why we built this product,
is they were like, "Hey, we want your stuff,
"but we want it inside our firewall.
"We don't wanna go directly to your public repo."
- You want to opt in to saying,
"Yes, we want the new NumPy, not just,
"oh, somebody randomly pushed something out,
"and so we're gonna just grab it
"and assume that it's good," right?
- And you can apply-- - But not a lot of time,
yeah, go ahead.
- I was gonna say, you can apply policies as well.
That's common is a lot of places will say no GPL software
for various reasons, or they might say,
"Oh, if they're reported CVEs,
"these security reports that go through NIST,"
they might say, "I want no packages
"with a CVE more severe than some level."
And every IT department wants some handles
to control that kind of policy decision-making.
And so, yeah, so that's obviously,
I think that's why that's the most popular option,
is it's the easiest thing to get a handle on.
- Yeah, you can set up a private PyPI server,
pretty straightforward.
There's a cool article on testdriven.io.
But yeah, the Anaconda version that you all offer,
that's pretty cool.
Okay, so yeah, 45%, that's high.
I didn't expect that many companies
to have a private repository.
- Yeah, that's-- - It's good,
but I just expected it to be, I don't know, lower.
- Yeah, although on the other side,
that means 55% of those were just downloading
random stuff from the internet.
So it's good, I think the message is getting out
that you have to think about these things
from a risk perspective.
- Yeah, another was 33% of the organizations
do manual checks against a vulnerability database.
- Yeah, so this is what I was describing earlier,
these CVE databases are often a common vulnerability.
Manual checks, that's a lot of labor.
So it'll be interesting to see how many places
move to automating that in some fashion
in order to, the hard part there is those databases have,
again, to data prep and data cleaning,
often to make use of those public databases,
you need to do some amount of curation
'cause there's a lot of stuff that ends up in there
that's mis-tagged or unclear or whatever.
And so a lot of this manual checking
is probably also just doing that curation.
- Yeah, one of the things that's nice,
yeah, one of the things that's nice is GitHub
will now do automatic PRs for security problems
that it knows about at least.
- Yeah, yeah, that kind of automation
is gonna be really important, I think, in the future,
just 'cause you can't manually go through all those things.
- What are you seeing around source control?
You know, source code, algorithms,
these are really important
and people wanna keep them super secure,
but if they put them on their own
private source code repositories,
they lose a lot of benefits
like automatic vulnerability checking and stuff like that.
What's the GitHub or GitLab versus other stuff,
maybe Enterprise GitHub?
- Yeah, I mean, the interesting thing there is, yeah,
everyone is using source control at some point
and oftentimes they want it managed inside their firewall.
And so, yeah, things like GitHub Enterprise and things
and GitLab are pretty popular for that.
A lot of times I think what a places will do
is they'll use some kind of the next item here,
the 30% that they're using a vulnerability scanner.
A lot of those vulnerability scanners,
you can use on your own internal source repositories.
And so that way they're not taking advantage of GitHub
automatically doing that for them,
but they at least have some solution probably
for looking for stuff.
- Yeah, yeah, hopefully.
All right, let's see.
Yeah, also 20% said they have no idea what they're doing.
And then another 20% said we're not doing anything.
Well, I'm sure of it.
Let's maybe close out this overview
of the survey results here by talking about Python.
Python's popularity, is it growing?
Is it shrinking?
Is everyone switching to Julia or have they all gone to Go?
What are they doing?
- Yeah, so I think Python's advantage here
is being a pretty good at a lot of things.
And so it ends up being a natural meeting point
of people who are interested in web development
and data science or system administration,
automation and all of that.
So I think Python still has some growth to go,
but I mean, what's interesting is,
in our survey, I would say the second most popular
was SQL, which has been around forever.
- Yeah, and those are often used, yeah, exactly.
And they're often used in parallel, right?
Like I'm gonna do a SQL query
and then run some Python code against the results,
that type of thing.
- Yeah, yeah, definitely.
I'm a big believer in that there is no one language
for everything and there never will be.
But there is a lot of different options
that people are looking to.
I mean, Go makes sense for a lot of sort of
network service kind of things.
I mean, Kubernetes is built almost entirely out of Go,
but I'm not sure if I'd want to do any data science
in Go at this point.
- Sure.
- And so it's gonna always be a mix.
- It might not even be that you're doing one or the other,
you might be doing both.
Like for example, maybe you've written some core engine
in Rust, but then you wrap it in Python
to program against it, right?
It could be both.
I guess it could even be a more combination than that.
But yeah, the popularity of Python looks strong.
So it looks like it's still right up near the top.
I mean, obviously the group that you pulled
is somewhat self-selecting, right?
But that's still a general trend outside of your space.
- Yeah, yeah, this is definitely gonna be skewed to Python
'cause otherwise why are you taking an Anaconda survey?
But still I think, yeah, it is definitely something
you see broadly in the industry as well.
- Yeah, okay, cool.
Anything else you wanna add real quick
before we wrap this up?
- Nope, no, I think this has been great.
- Yeah, cool.
Speaking of different languages and stuff
out in the live stream, Alexander Siminov says,
"Just learned that I can use Rust in JupyterLab
"with some help from Anaconda.
"My mind is blown."
Good job.
(laughing)
- Yeah, that's the one thing I should mention about Python
is one of the advantages is if you're using Python,
you're probably benefiting from most of the languages
on the stack, even if you're not writing them.
And so the ability of Python to connect to anything
is I think its strength
and why it continues to top these lists.
- Yeah. - Yeah.
- Absolutely.
And then Paul out there has a question
about the commercial license.
And I guess there was some changes to it.
Can you maybe speak to that?
I don't really track the details well enough to--
- Yeah, so what we did was the Anaconda distribution
packages have a terms of service that says
if you are in an organization above a certain size,
we want you to have a commercial license
if you're using it in your business.
I forget the exact threshold where that's at.
And the reason there was to help one support
the development of those packages.
And I should say, by the way,
that terms of service does not apply to conda-forge.
Obviously, those are community packages.
But if you want the assurances that Anaconda's providing
on those packages and you are a company of a certain size,
we would like you to have a commercial license.
That allows us to support you more directly.
It allows us to fund continued work on those packages.
And that's sort of, it's a sustainability thing, I think.
But for most people, it's not an issue
'cause they're either below that size
or you're just using it individually.
- Do you know what that size is, what that cutoff is?
- I do not recall off the top of my head
and so I'm afraid to quote a number.
- Yeah, yeah, sure, no worries.
Cool, all right, well, thanks for giving us that info.
I mean, it seems fair that large companies
benefiting from your tools contribute back.
I think that statement should be applied
to open source in general, right?
If your company is built on Python,
you should give back to the Python space.
If your company's built on Java, it's Oracle,
I don't know if they need help.
But in general, if you're built on top of something,
there's a lot of support you can give back, right?
It's kind of insane to me that banks
that are worth many, many billions of dollars
do very little in terms of directly supporting
the people who they're built upon, right?
They can hire, pay for a couple of people
building the core libraries.
Like if you're using Flask, right?
Support the Flask Palettes organization,
something like that.
- Yeah, and we in turn take that licensing money
and some fraction of it goes to NumFocus
for the broader sort of data science,
open source community, in addition to us
directly funding some open source projects as well.
- Yeah, cool.
All right, well, we're about at a time stand,
but let's talk real quickly about Piston
because Piston is not rewriting Python in Rust.
It's not replacing it with Cython or just moving to Go.
It's about making core Python faster, right?
- Yeah, this is something, I mean,
we've been thinking about performance
in Python for a long time.
One of the early projects that Anaconda created
is called Numba, it's a Python compiler.
It's focused on numerical use cases
and it really does its best job
in dealing with that kind of numerical loop heavy code.
But it's not gonna optimize your entire program,
but optimize the specific functions.
And so Numba is very good at a very specific thing.
And so we've been thinking for a long time
about how we could broaden our impact.
And so when I saw that Piston,
which among many Python compiler projects
had re-emerged in 2020 with a new version
written from scratch based on Python 3.8
as a just-in-time compiler in the interpreter.
So it's designed to optimize any Python program.
It can't necessarily do any given thing
as fast as Numba might be for a specific
numerical algorithm, but the breadth
is really what is interesting to us.
And so when I saw this project had emerged,
Piston 2.0 kind of came on the scene,
I started looking more closely at it
and we started talking with them.
And we realized that there's a lot
that I think the Piston and Anaconda could do together.
And so we have hired the Piston team on
to our open source group.
So they are funded to work on Piston
the same way we fund open source developers
to work on other projects.
And so we're really, with the benefit
that there's other help we can give
and resources and infrastructure
that we can offer this project.
And so we're really excited to see
where this is gonna go from here.
- Yeah, I'm excited as well.
All these different things that people are doing
to make Python faster for everyone,
not just, well, let's try to recompile this loop,
but just you run Python and it just goes better.
I think that's pretty exciting.
You know, we've got the Cinder projects from Facebook.
- Yeah, this is a really good year
for Python optimization projects.
- I should be careful about typing that
into a search engine, but the Cinder project,
is not something that's publicly available really.
It's not like a supported improvement,
but it's a, here's what they did at Instagram.
There's a bunch of speed ups.
Maybe you all can bring some of that
back into regular Python.
But yeah, there's a lot of these types of ideas
and yeah, awesome.
Looking forward to see what you all do with this.
- And you know, the CPython core developers
have even announced that they're going to,
you're undertaking a new effort to speed up CPython.
And so we're looking to collaborate with them.
They're gonna have to figure out how,
what they can do within the confines of CPython,
because you are the Python interpreter for the world.
And so you need to be careful,
but there's a lot they're gonna do.
And we're gonna try and share ideas as much as we can,
because these are both open source projects.
- Right, a lot of the challenges have been in compatibility.
Right, like, oh, we could do this,
but then C extensions don't work.
And those are also important for performance
in big ways and other stuff.
But yeah, so they do have to be careful, but that's great.
All right, final comment real quick, follow up from Paul.
I'd like my company to do more open source,
more to do more to support open source.
Any advice on promoting that?
- Yeah, I think the best first place to start
is identifying what open source
does your company absolutely rely on.
And especially if you can find an open source project
that you absolutely rely on that doesn't seem
to be getting a lot of support.
And then go look at those projects and see what are they,
do they have an established way to donate funds?
Do they have other needs?
That's something I think that is easier to sell
is you say, look, our organization absolutely depends on X,
whatever this is, as opposed to picking a project at random.
It's easier to show a specific business need.
- Yeah, yeah, for sure.
You can say, look, this is the core thing that we do
and it's built on this rather than,
oh, here's some projects I ran across.
We should give some of our money away.
- Yeah.
- That's a harder sell to stockholders, I guess.
All right, well, Stan, this has been really fun.
Let me ask you the final two questions
before we get out of here.
If you're gonna write some Python code,
what editor do you use?
- So if I'm on a terminal, it's Emacs.
If I have a actual GUI desktop,
I'm usually using VS Code these days.
- Okay, cool.
And then notable PyPI package or conda package
that you're like, oh, this thing is awesome.
People should know about whatever library.
- Yeah, wearing my GPU fan hat,
I think a lot more people should know about cuPy, C-U-P-Y.
It's a Python package that's basically,
if you took NumPy but made it run on the GPU,
it's the easiest way I can think of
to get started in GPU computing
'cause it just uses NumPy calls that you're familiar with.
So I would highly recommend if you are at all curious
about GPU computing, go check out cuPy.
- Cool, yeah, that's a great one.
So over there on that computer, I have over there,
it has a GeForce, but on this one,
it obviously doesn't have Nvidia on my Mac.
Does that work?
CUDA cores, the CU part of that is for the Nvidia bits.
What's my GPU story if I don't have Nvidia on my machine?
- Not as clear.
Yeah, CUDA has kind of come to dominate the space
being sort of first out of the gate.
There's a lot more Python projects for CUDA.
There are not really clear choices, I think,
for AMD or for built-in GPUs at this point.
Although I've definitely watched the space.
Intel is coming out with their own GPUs
sort of this year and starting next year.
And they have been collaborating
with various open source projects,
including the Number project,
to build Python tools to run on Intel GPUs,
both embedded and discrete.
So-- - Yeah, okay.
- So this may change in the future.
It'll be interesting to see.
- Yeah, absolutely.
All right, final call to action.
People are excited about digging more into these results
and learning more about the state of the industry.
What do they do?
- Go search for state of data science, Anaconda,
and you'll find the results of the survey.
There's a lot of detail in there,
so I would definitely go through
and take a look at all of the charts and things,
'cause there's all kinds of topics covered in there.
- Yeah, I think it's 46 pages or something,
we just covered some of the highlights, so absolutely.
All right, Stan, well, thank you for being here.
It's been great to chat with you.
- Thanks, it's been great.
- You bet.
Bye, everyone.
- [Aglia] That's interesting.